---
layout: post
title: "Windows Home"
summary: "Microsoft Windows (also referred to as Windows or Win) is a graphical operating system developed and published by Microsoft"
author: nulldoot2k
date: "2022-04-28 1:35:23 +0530"
category: ["jekyll", "windows"]
tags: ["windows"]
thumbnail: /assets/img/posts/windows.jpg
keywords: windows
usemathjax: false
permalink: blog/windows
---

### **`Windows`** may refer to any of the following:

1. Microsoft Windows (also referred to as Windows or Win) is a graphical operating system developed and published by Microsoft. It provides a way to store files, run software, play games, watch videos, and connect to the Internet.
  Microsoft Windows was first introduced with version 1.0 on November 10, 1983. Over a dozen versions of Windows were released after that, including the current version, Windows 10.

### **`Editions of Windows`**

Starting with Windows XP, Microsoft has published various editions of Windows. Each of these Windows editions has the same core operating system, but some editions have additional features, at an additional cost.

The two most common editions of Windows for home computers are Windows Home and Windows Professional.

### **`Windows Home`**
Windows Home (also called Win Home) is the basic edition of Windows. 
It provides all the fundamental functions of Windows, such as connecting to the Internet, browsing the web,
watching videos, using office software, and playing video games. It is the least expensive edition of Windows, and it comes preinstalled on many new computers.

### **`Windows Pro`**

Windows Professional (also called Windows Pro, or Win Pro) is an enhanced Windows edition, for power users, and small to medium sized businesses. It includes all the features of Windows Home, plus the following:

- **`Remote Desktop`** - allows you to remotely control another Windows computer connected to the Internet.

- **`Bitlocker`** - Microsoft's integrated file `encryption`.

- Trusted Boot - provides encryption of the boot loader, protecting the computer against `rootkits`.

- **`Hyper-V`** - a Windows hypervisor for running `virtual machines`, equivalent to third-party software, such as VirtualBox.

- **`Windows Sandbox`** - provides a lightweight, `sandboxed` Windows 10 instance. You can use this isolated "Windows within Windows" environment to safely run suspicious or untrusted software. Windows Sandbox requires a Windows Insider build of Windows 10 Pro or Enterprise.

- **`Group policy management`** - Administrators can define **`group policies`**, for managing multiple Windows users in a business or organization.

- Support for more than 128 `GB` of `RAM`.

- Greater `Windows Update` installation options, including more flexible scheduling and postponement for up to 35 days.

### **`Business editions`**

**`Windows Professional for Workstations`** and **`Windows Enterprise`** provide advanced features for professional studios and large businesses. For more information, refer to the side-by-side comparison in the official Microsoft Windows business edition comparison chart.

### **`Why is Microsoft Windows called Windows?`**

Before the release of Microsoft Windows, Microsoft users were used to the single task `command line` operating system `MS-DOS`. 
Because Microsoft names most of its products with one word, it needed a word that best described its new GUI operating system. 
Microsoft chose "Windows" because of the multiple `windows` that allow different tasks and programs to run at the same time. 
Because you cannot trademark a common name like "Windows," it's officially known as "Microsoft Windows". 
The first version of Microsoft Windows was version 1.0, released in `1985`.

### **`Microsoft Windows help pages`**

- [How to determine the version of Windows on a computer.](https://www.computerhope.com/issues/ch000930.htm)

- [Windows 11 help](https://www.computerhope.com/windows-11.htm)

- [How to Move the Desktop Folder in Windows 10](/blog/windows/restart-userprofile-windows)

- [Disabling Admin Permission Windows](/blog/windows/Disabling-Admin-Permission-Windows)

- continue....
